# REStfulAPI 

## Overview

Implementation of Test Cases: CRUD Pattern, for a pet store sample hosted at http://localhost:8080/. 

This is a java project to build a stand-alone server and other project which implements REST Assured. 


#Projects
* Server stand alone https://github.com/swagger-api/swagger-petstore

* Testing framework https://github.com/SergioAG666/REStfulAPI.git


REST Assured is an open-source (free) Java library available for testing primarily the RESTful web services. 

REST Assured is a Java domain-specific language (DSL) for simplifying testing of REST-based web services built on top of HTTP. 

It supports most commonly used HTTP verbs like GET, POST, PUT/PATCH DELETE, OPTIONS, HEAD which can be used to validate & verify the response of these requests.

This demo shows a complete design using the CRUD pattern, where we can modularize and separate the data layer, API calls, test codes. 

##Test Cases Proposed
These **test cases** were oriented towards handling the **pets** option. First we created one pet, update this pet, get the pet, update the pet and the last operation is delete the pet.

They **test cases** are completely designed independent of the testing framework. This allows for code reuse, modularity, and better code maintenance.



_Dependency Details_

**io.rest-assured**      --> Rest Assured for testing API interactions(request & response),extract json/xml path.
**org.testng**           --> Designing the Test Frmework using TestNG Classes.
**com.google.code.gson** --> Represent the request body data in the from of java objects like Map <--> JSONformat.
**com.github.javafaker** --> To supply fake data for testing while sending request.
**com.jayway.jsonpath**  --> Extract data specifically from JSON file using jayway jsonpath.

_environment.java_ class to register all the available services with end-points
_petEndpoints.java_ class to perform Create, Read, Update, Delete requests to the services using the above-created end-points
_pet.java_ class to represents the data structure of the user payload which is in JSON format
_testPets.java_ class to perform the API Testing for the services using the TestNG class

------
------
###1
To run web page, object under test (with Maven)
To run the server, run this task:

```
mvn package jetty:run
```

This will start Jetty embedded on port 8080.


Testing the server
Once started, you can navigate to http://localhost:8080/api/v3/openapi.json to view the Swagger Resource Listing. 

This tells you that the server is up and ready to demonstrate Swagger.

Using the UI
There is an HTML5-based API tool bundled in this sample--you can view it it at http://localhost:8080. This lets you inspect the API using an interactive UI. You can access the source of this code from here

###2
To run test framework project
Download the project from github (https://github.com/SergioAG666/REStfulAPI.git)
Run the testPets.java class as TestNG test to observe results of tests. Each time you run the code, a different petId and petName is generated by the Java Faker class.
